
ADAPT VQE (Pennylane): In the Single-Double-gates file, we tried using ADAPT VQE for 4 electron and 6 orbitals with noiseless simulator. Note that this corresponds to freezing/removing the core orbital of 1s for Be atom. We use UCCSD ansatz with single and double excitations. For different such excitations, we look at the gradient and remove the excitations for which the gradient is 0. After using only non-zero excitations, we use it as the ansatz to get the GS Energy value as -15.59 Ha which is very close to the actual one. The time used for this calculation is also less than a minute for 20 iterations


Implementation of paper: Doubling the Size of Quantum Simulators by Entanglement Forging by Andrew Eddins
We implement the circuit of this paper for BeH2 using entanglement forging. We get a convergence but it converges to a suboptimal value. This suggests that the Ansatz provided in the paper is not based on the state generated, but rather the overall molecule through classical computation. The idea is to do a Schmidt decomposition of circuit into two parts with an interacting term. After 2 X gates, we get the same \phi state as mentioned in the paper. Perhaps, either one needs more hop gates or the effective computation bottleneck is determined by the classical comptutation instead. 


In the file Non-zero gradients, we look at orbitals freezing and see how far are the values when only the core orbital is frozen vs when another orbital of Be is frozen. The difference between actual energy and the VQE GS energy is the same for both the cases. When we remove one orbital (perpendicular to the plane of other two p orbitals), the energy does not change because the excitation does not happen between the orbitals. This method, however, is not very robust to noise, due to multiple reasons. The primary reason is the size of the system. The secondary reason is the depth of the circuit with 2-qubit gates. 
